Hema Jumani
5/32, Borla Co-operative Housing Society, C.G. Gidhwani Road, Chembur colony, Mumbai - 74
Email Address: jumanihema@gmail.com.
Cell no: 9833401717
Date of Birth : 17th March, 1978.
To seek challenges at a workplace where I could visualize myself operating at a suitable level, while utilizing my core competencies maximally & to synergize these with the objectives of the organization so as to strike a perfect balance between employer’s expectations & personal job satisfaction through performance-based-growth.
Career Precise
HR Department with over 16 years’ functional experience in the areas of Human Resource Management, Recruitment, HR Policies, Process Improvements & Planning and Performance Management system. Presently designated as Head HR and leading various HR functions. Insightful understanding of planning, strategizing and implementing abilities with demonstrated success in HR related issues. Domain expertise in the field of Talent Acquisition, HR Operations & Administration, MIS.
Functional Proficiency
- Budgeting &HR Operations -  Dash Board/HRIS/MIS/Reports -  Attendance/Leave management       
- Payroll Monitoring		- Joining / Exit Formalities	- 	Recruitment
-Employee Engagement		- Settlements/ Claims		Administration & training
Experience:-
Company Name: Urban Transit Pvt Ltd., Subsidiary of Scomi engineering BHD., (Malaysia) 
Scomi is world class leader in Transport solutions and internationally renowned for its design and manufacturing capabilities with wide range of products such as monorail, buses, and special purpose vehicles (i.e petrol tankers, Refuse compactors, vacuum tankers etc)
Employment Date: April 2013 till date.
Designation: Head HR, Admin & Training (India)
Principle responsibilities and achievements:-
Interfacing with Management and Head of Departments for formulating & implementing HR Policies & Procedures in line with organization Vision and objectives.
Translate Business requirement into effective HR practices across functions, delivering people solution aligned to business objectives.
Ensured HR plans supports the needs of the business but are also flexible enough to cope with changes in the organization, as and when occurred.
Defined the optimum Org structure with COO & Dy. COO and closed Manpower planning for the existing business.
Defined compensation structure as per law of the land.
Top talent retention and Engagement activities
Led all redundancy consultants
100% compliance on all the aspects of statutory laws.
Zero tolerance policy
Payroll Administration; inclusive of Time Office for all employees
Coordinating for training & Certification.
Implementation of updated training Manuals.
Ensuring the database of the training & Certification maintained by the team.
Company Name: Skill Travel Pvt Ltd., 
Skill Travel offers corporate travel services for business travelers, Conferences booking, hotel booking, and corporate guest services across India.
Employment Date: May 12 till April 2013.
Designation: Manager HR. 
Responsible for both day to day management and strategic direction of the organization along with decision making.
Manpower planning – Recruitment and staffing
Induction & On boarding.
Ensuring issuance of Appointment letter & personnel files are maintained
Implementing HRMS to automate and effectively facilitate HR operations across the organization.
Engaged in employee interactions for sustaining and maintaining the work force in the organization.
Conducting Exit interviews and analyzing the root cause of resignations
		Measure budget vs. actuals on a monthly basis. Suggest changes to enhance productivity and to control cost.
Implementing the process as per client expectation for desired outcome.
Preparing the monthly invoices for clients in the required format.
Preparing the data in the prescribed format for the clients on monthly basis.
Company Name: Aegis – ESSAR Group
Aegis is Global Business Services Provider offering Business Process Outsourcing, Contact Center Solutions, Transactional and Payroll Management Processing.
Employment Date: Oct, 09 till April 2012.
Designation: Assistant Manager HR. 
Managing the complete recruitment life-cycle for sourcing the best talent from diverse sources after identification of manpower requirements for new / existing Depts.
Supervising generation of Monthly Payroll Input Data and forwarding the same to the Finance Dept. 
Authenticating Payroll entries in the Online-System, ensuring timely & accurate disbursement of Employee Salaries. 
		Monitoring performance of employees against set parameters. Evolving Parameters / metrics for processes to prepare process documents for different processes on PMS.
Execution of the Appraisal system across departments
Preparing organization structure in Visio.
Interface between the HR and the Customer/ Process owners in Operations. Responsible for regular interaction with the Process Owners to understand their expectations.
Worked as End user in SAP-HR & SAP-HR Consultant in Time Management, Personnel Administration, Payroll and Organizational Management.
Company Name: Reliance BPO Pvt Limited
Reliance - is a leading Service Provider of Data capture management, technical support, revenue integrity services,
Employment Date: Jun, 03 till Sep 09.
Designation: Sr. Team Member HR. 
Planning human resource requirements in consultation with heads of different functional & operational areas, conducting selection interviews and induction programs.
Addressing employee grievances and advising management on the general nature of the problems.
Organizing employee engagement programs 
Involved in Designing, implementing Performance management system.
Conducting Exit interview, completing exit formalities and processing full & final settlement.
Coordinating with vendors at different locations to full fill legal department requirement for preparing agreement, addendum with respect to manpower, transport etc., thus ensuring compliance of all vendors with respect to the agreement and statutory requirements.
Issuing ESIC temporary Card.
Processing Form for opening PF a/c, PF withdrawal  & PF transfer 
Issuing transfer/promotion, experience & reliving letters.
Handing the personal folders to respective HR in case of transfer out.
Company Name: Signature Colors 
Signature colors is a leading International Fashion brand.
Employment Date: Jul 01 till Jan, 03.
Designation: Executive HR & Admin. 
Working out Job Profiles, Roles and identification of Competencies. 
Coordinating with employees, legal & commercial department, Manpower and transport vendors.
Evolve process to have seamless payment to vendors, with 100% compliance on documentation along with reduced cycle time in processing payment with zero error.
Compliance to Shop and Establishment and labour laws.
Maintaining HR database.
Tracking details in daily HR tracker.
Preparing Monthly HRIS.
Company Name: Smt. Sushiladevi Deshmukh Vidyalaya & Jr. College
Top college known for law colleges in Airoli- Navi Mumbai.
Employment Date: Nov 00 till Jul, 01.
Designation: Executive HR & Admin. 
Follow up on Reference Checks closures as per client / organization requirements. Ensure employee database is correctly maintained and payroll inputs are received from Ops and salary inputs happen as per timelines.
		Taking necessary approval for expenses incurred other than prescribed in policy documents.
		Coordinating for FMB/Imprest and employee personnel claims such as medical reimbursement, telephone bills, fuel bill, conveyance bills etc.
		Follow up with SPOCs for the invoices and supporting from all the location as per commercial department requirement.
Vendor development and management.
Settling the claims of the employees.
Validating the invoices and sending it to finance for payout.
Looking after the entire facility. 
Housekeeping & Canteen Management.
Ticket, Hotel & car booking.
 Visa Renewal
Hotel tie-up for Corporate rates
Handling BMC inspections.
Academic Credential
Year
Degree
Institute
Board / Univ.
% obtained 
2006
E-MBA
SIES College, Nerul
Mumbai
72%
1999
T.Y.B.Com
Vivekanand Education Society, Chembur
Mumbai
56%
1996
H.S.C
Swami Vivekanad High School,  Chembur
Mumbai
64%
1994
S.S.C
Sadhu Vaswani High School, Chembur
Mumbai
72.68%
NOTEWORTHY ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Silver Medal for securing 80% marks in Social Studies in S.S.C from Sadhu Vaswani High School.
Certificate for actively participating in Parent – Teacher’s Workshop organized in Smt. Sushiladevi Deshmukh Vidyalaya & Jr. College.
Awarded for consistent excellent performance from January to December 2004 & Earned Highest PMS Bonus in entire contact center.
Certificate for top performer in North Zone for the month of February 2006
Certificate of Appreciation for Annual Reward and Recognition organized in Reliance BPO.
EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Member of the Core committee for Akanksha 2005 at SIES College. 
Sindhi Sipahi Certificate for securing First Class from Sadhu Vaswani Mission, Pune.
Certificate of Merit in Essay Competition – Senior Group from Vivekanand Education Society.
		
		HOBBIES
		Drawing, Glass Painting, Fabric Painting
